1. I feel like overall, the poems we have looked so far revolve around the necessity of active meaning-making. In Advertisement, Identification, and Map, we are shown the different ways in which we attempt to hide the—sometimes painful—reality of human existence, first through chemical compassion, then through simple denial, and finally by imposing imperfect models that show us what we want to see. Then, The End and the Beginning, Possibilities, and Some People Like Poetry are about agency, reconstruction, and personal meaning. First, we look at the way those illusions we hide behind can fall apart, exposing us to the bare reality of things like war, and how we have to reconstruct the world ourselves—time won’t heal everything; we do. Truth is dirty, and we have to go through the process of meaning-making ourselves. Then, we look at the importance of subjectivity and personal preferences for things that don’t necessarily make sense, as uncertainty is where meaning ultimately lives. Finally, Szymborska reflects about poetry as a tool for personal meaning, which she describes as a redemptive handrail, but the fact that it only resonates with some people emphasizes the personal nature of the meaning-making process.  
2. My understanding of the poetic genre or poetic criticism hasn’t changed too much on the surface, however I do find that my associations with poetry have changed a bit, in the sense that I see it less as an artform reliant on specific conventions, mainly on using the inherent musicality of language, as well as perhaps more expressive language than most other forms of literary art. But Szymborska really is quite far away from that as a writer, with no metaphors for metaphor’s sake and rarely having flowery language or long lyrical descriptions, so I find it interesting how she uses poetry as almost just another tool, another lens to describe the world around us rather than being a specific artform that happens to reflect the world around us. So overall my intellectual understanding of what poetry *is* hasn’t particularly changed I feel, however my emotional associations to the idea of poetry is a little different, wider in breadth I would say.  
3. I feel like I could make a link between The End and the Beginning and one of the Uğur Gallenkuş photos, specifically about how they discuss war and reconstruction. They reject the “highlight reel” view of history or global events. They expose how comfort is built on the suffering others have to clean up. In the poem we are told about how cameras have left for anoither war because they aren’t interested in the boring, painful, reconstruction process, and in the photograph, we see a clear visual contrast between war-torn reality and sanitized ignorance. Memory is also explored, where Gallenkuş shows us the present in parallel, while Szymborska shows us the forgotten past underneath the present. What I feel I’d struggle with however is connecting to the rest of the BOW because I feel like so far that is the main connection I can think of. I do feel like it would be a better choice for the HLE than for an IO. First because of all the things we’ve talked about in class, but also just because I feel like it’s the one which is least obviously connected to our nonliterary texts (which is problematic for the IO) and to our other literary texts (which makes Paper 2 harder). Of course it’s still feasible but I just feel like it’s a better choice for the HLE.  
4. Hence, I’ve chosen to add a fourth question which is potential threads to explore for an HL Essay about it. Disclaimer: none of those are meant to be formatted as actual lines of inquiry, as most of them don’t refer to specific authorial choice at all. Those are just potential interesting ideas that I need to look at and eventually combine into one/many ideas for a line of inquiry.
	1. themes
		1. necessity of individual meaning-making in response to existential uncertainty  
		2. use of the poetic form to challenge simplified representations of reality  
		3. tension between collective narratives and individual experience  
		4. human agency and personal responsibility   
		5. mortality
	2. features
		1. irony and absurdity
		2. juxtaposition of the mundane and the profound
		3. perspective and shifting viewpoints
		4. casual, everyday language