Just like a text is influenced by the mindset and worldview of its author, it is influenced by the mindset and worldview of its reader. It could even be argued that, rather than carrying meaning, texts allow the reader to read meaning into the text. There is no inherent meaning to a text, it is simply a way for the author to give directions to the reader as to what meaning to read into it. Therefore, the closer the reader’s mindset is to the author’s mindset, the more likely the meaning they read into the text is to be the same as the one the author wrote into the text. Of course, it will never be the same meaning, for that would require the author and the reader to be the same person. Well, the same person in the same place in life. Well, the same person in the same place in life, at the same time. Well, the same person in the same place in life, at the same time, with the same goals and ideals and in the same culture, etc. Clearly, no two readers will read the same meaning into the text. Even the author editing their manuscript will be reading a different meaning into their text than the meaning they wrote into it previously.

Consequently, even with the deepest knowledge possible of the time period and cultural context of the works, the reader will still read a different meaning into the text. Sometimes, this will cause the text to simply not work out—the cultural differences being so strong that the reader cannot follow the directions left by the author in the text, and cannot relate to the meaning they’re reading into the text. Sometimes, however, the directions left in the text will by chance coincide with the meaning the reader is reading into the text—even if it isn’t even remotely near the meaning the author wrote into the text. This is where literature can build cultural bridges: the cultures are different, but it just so happens that the reader can still relate to the text and read a coherent and useful meaning into it.

In conclusion, I believe that readers will always approach texts—especially but not exclusively those from different cultures or time periods—with their own cultural context in mind, consciously or unconsciously. Therefore, the meaning they read into the text will be first and foremost influenced by their own cultural experiences.