Since the dawn of time, humans have been making stories. Those stories, naturally, are reflections of the author’s life and context, of the author’s worldview. Thus, stories can be seen as time capsules, which allow us to immerse ourselves into the author’s situation. This means we get insight into the author personally, but also—perhaps more importantly—into the culture they lived in, what was, in the context of the time, place, social context, and cultural identity of the author, deemed normal, what they deemed odd, what they deemed interesting, what they deemed impressive, and, most of all, what they deemed important enough to tell—and later—write stories about.

Of course, we may have more direct depictions of the periods and cultures, but why should they be considered more accurate, or more trustworthy? After all, they are equally affected by the bias of their authors. It could be argued they may be affected even more, since the author is specifically trying to represent the culture accurately, and thus will exclusively allow us to see their perception of their culture. Conversely, less directly related literary works may have been less influenced by said bias, since the author is specifically trying to tell a story that may not be their own story, and thus to create some distance between themselves and the story.

In conclusion, studying these stories can allow us to gain insight into the cultures, thoughts, and influences of the authors we study, perhaps even better than their own memoirs about their experiences would. If anything has stayed consistent during all of human history, it is our need to dream, to imagine, to write. Therefore, can studying this specific factor not be seen as a way to study the human experience through the lens of the stories we have always been writing?