a. I would be very intrigued, as this commercial say pretty much nothing about the product itself. However, I would see the Apple Macintosh as being groundbreaking and revolutionary. The ad positions the Macintosh as something that will break the mold of conformity, symbolized by the heroine smashing the oppressive “Big Brother” figure. Even without understanding what the product does, I’d likely infer that it is innovative and anti-establishment, standing out from the status quo in technology.

b. I think it’s a very odd commercial, considering it doesn’t really say anything about the product. I initially would see the commercial as an interesting one however, because it’s so different from other commercials, and it would make me want to do more research on the Apple Macintosh.

c. The message of the commercial is clear: Apple’s Macintosh is a tool for empowerment and individuality in a world dominated by conformity, represented by IBM and other corporate giants at the time. It suggests that Apple’s technology will free people from the oppression of uniformity, empowering them to think and act differently.

d. Ridley Scott uses film as a medium in very well to convey this message by drawing on Orwellian dystopia and creating a visually powerful narrative. The bleak, grey setting filled with conformist drones contrasts starkly with the vibrant, athletic heroine, symbolizing Apple’s Macintosh as a force of liberation. Scott uses close-ups, dynamic action, and the climactic destruction of Big Brother to drive home the idea of breaking free from oppressive technology. It is also interesting to note the Mac was one of the first computers to have a color display (IBM computers only displayed in black-and-white), so the heroine wearing bright colored clothes whereas the rest of the world is black-and-white is made even more meaningful by that.