Nota bene: any reference to time pressure refers to the time pressure of a normal paper 1 too, it’s not a complaint about the time we had today

During today’s Paper 1 practice, I realized that my biggest difficulty lies in organizing my ideas quickly enough to develop them fully. I identified the biblical reference and its effect, the use of direct addresses to the reader, and the shift in tone toward a lyrical, existential register. These were strong points of analysis, but I wasn’t able to explain them in as much depth as I normally would. This showed me that while I can spot techniques and their effects relatively easily, I need to work on justifying and developing my claims under pressure. This is partly, if not mainly, because I have not had to do close analysis under time pressure since the January mocks. Indeed, the June mocks had paper 2 which isn’t close analysis in the same way, and my English work over the summer was mainly directed toward the HL Essay which doesn’t have any time pressure.

My approach to Paper 1 in general, and today specifically, is to sort of build it inductively, rather than deductively. I just read the text over and over and write any notable stylistic features. I then try and group those pieces of textual evidence into three main points. Finally, I come up with a thesis that is supported by my points (themselves supported by the evidence I found in the text) that answers the guiding question. I am quite happy with this approach, as it avoids the flaws of a more deductive approach. Indeed, I can’t “not find evidence for a claim” or “not find arguments to support my thesis” since I build my claims from the evidence I already have and my thesis from the claims I know I can argue. However, it is possible that this approach is less efficient time-wise since it requires reading it more times than if I came up with claims after one reading and then looked specifically for points that support them. Nevertheless, I did manage to make it work in previous paper 1s, so I will stick with that approach and just try to get faster.